---
title: "Accessibility on the Web"
date: 2020-06-07
updated: 2020-06-07
categories: javascript web-dev
slug: "web-accessibility"
draft: true
---






## 2. Make forms accessible


## 3. ensure everything interactive is keyboard-accessible

## 4. design all states (esp. :focus)

~
## 5. Use semantic html wherever possible

be aware fo stuff like this:

```
h1 + button // ✅ H1 will show up when navigating by headings
button + h1 // ❌ H1 will not show up when navigating by headings
```

## 6. Don't actually ues 'diabled'. design a disabled state and set 'aria-disabled' as prop

## 7. Know how to hide things inclusively

Only use display: none or hidden if you want noone to see the thing. in other cases use the 'visually-hidden helper class that you can find everywhere

## 8. visual order and dom order should alawys match.

if you need to use e.g. flex row=reverse set the tabindex properly. but ideally, don't use the 'reverse' value at all. it was a shitty move to even add it to the spec.

## 9. make sure colour contrast works

## 10. make sure that dynamic content is somehow announced to the user

## 11. traverse your website with keyboard only
* all screen readers hook into your site the same way as the keyboard -> if you can't navigate your page using your keyboard neither can a screen reader.

What you need to care about:
* autofocus (don't use unless you have a good reason)
* focus states. never override the default state unless you're providing an alternative (which means never set `outline: none` unless you defined an alternative)

* :focus-visible is a nice new pseudo-class that's only supported in firefox (so far). It only sets when the element has been focused with a keyboard, not with the mouse




## 12. Skip to content button

and in general allow people to skip to stuff using semantic html landmarks (e.g. nav, header, main, footer)



## 13. people might use the screen reader and look at the screen
Don't make the screen reader read something other than what's on the screen. it confuses the heck out of people


## 14. allow zoom


## link v button
is it a redirect? use link and style like button
is it a button? use button style s link

never!!!!! put a link int a buttton or a button into a link. i will haunt you!

dont set target on links unless you are really really sure you want the link to open in a new tab. you need a good reason though

# Resources
## Colour Contrast

