---
title: "Accessibility on the Web"
date: 2020-06-07
updated: 2020-06-07
categories: javascript web-dev
slug: "web-accessibility"
draft: true
---

The best aria is no aria at all






# POST: Use semantic html wherever possible

be aware fo stuff like this:

```
h1 + button // ✅ H1 will show up when navigating by headings
button + h1 // ❌ H1 will not show up when navigating by headings
``` 

## new post link v button
is it a redirect? use link and style like button
is it a button? use button style s link

never!!!!! put a link int a buttton or a button into a link. i will haunt you!

dont set target on links unless you are really really sure you want the link to open in a new tab. you need a good reason though



# POST: Know how to hide things inclusively / enhance site for screen readers

Only use display: none or hidden if you want noone to see the thing. in other cases use the 'visually-hidden helper class that you can find everywhere. But if you want to hide something that's interactive, first of all: Why? Second: figure out how to comunicate to the user that they have 'selected' something'

## 12. Skip to content button
and in general allow people to skip to stuff using semantic html landmarks (e.g. nav, header, main, footer)

## 13. people might use the screen reader and look at the screen
Don't make the screen reader read something other than what's on the screen. it confuses the heck out of people



# POST: COLOUR CONTRAST / FONT SIZE

## make sure colour contrast works

## 14. allow zoom


# POST: traverse your website with keyboard only
* all screen readers hook into your site the same way as the keyboard -> if you can't navigate your page using your keyboard neither can a screen reader.
* don't set autofocus (don't use unless you have a good reason)

## 11.2 ensure everything interactive is keyboard-accessible

## 11.3 visual order and dom order should alawys match.

if you need to use e.g. flex row=reverse set the tabindex properly. but ideally, don't use the 'reverse' value at all. it was a shitty move to even add it to the spec.



# POST: make sure that dynamic content is somehow announced to the user





# POST OTHER:  Set language of the page

```js
navigator.languages
    ? navigator.languages[0]
    : navigator.language || navigator.userLanguage || "en";
```



# POST: What is A11y, resources, states, why, ...

# POST: ROUNDUP/RESOURCES

# Resources
## Colour Contrast

